convolution is the process of filtering key features from an input image.
we use a kernel to multiply throughout the input matrix resulting in a feature map as output.

optimizers are used to update the attributes of a nn such as weights in order to minimize the loss function.

Loss function is used to evaulte the predicted value of a model.
It calculates the loss by evaluating the predicted value with the target value.

Tensors is a ds in Pytorch. It is similar to a matrix or an array and can be run in gpu's.

Activation function decides whether a neuron should be activated or not by calculating the weighted sum and further adding bias to it. The purpose of the activation function is to introduce non-linearity into the output of a neuron. 

Forward propagation is when the input data passes through the model from the input layer to the hidden and then the output layer and provides a prediction.

Backward propagation calculates the gradient of the loss function with respect to the network weight.

SGD picks a random set of sample data to calculate the gradient for each iteration.

in gd we take larger steps in one direction and smaller steps in the other direction which slows down the algorithm.
momentum limits the oscillation to one direction
increasing the learning speed.

Rmsprop limits the oscillations that move vertically. we can increase the lr and our algo would take larger steps in horiz direction , converging faster.

Adam controls the rate of gradient descent in such a way that there is minimum oscillation when it reaches the global minimum

Pytorch is an open source ml framework used for building deep nn.

maxpool is used to abstract or compress the input data/image.

dropout is where each node has a 0.5 chance of being disabled.Can help fix overfitting as it would reduce the dependency over specific nodes.

MSE Loss -> calculates squared avg of target and pred values.

CROSS ENTROPY Loss->used in binary classification.
good for models that give prob value between 0 and 1.

ONNX is an intermediate ml framework which can be used to convert a pre trained model from one framework to another.

ONNX rt is used for performing inference to onnx models.
